Hi everyone, in this video I'm going to show you how to search for and access ebooks through
the North Central University Library website.
Ebooks are a great option if you need immediate access, prefer reading online, or if you aren't
able to come to campus.
A lot of our books are available electronically, and once you know how to filter correctly,
they're really easy to find.
There are two main ways to search specifically for ebooks, and I'll walk you through both.
First we're going to go to library.northcentral.edu, that'll take you to our library homepage.
From here you'll use the main search bar to begin your search.
You can search by book title, author, or keywords related to your topic.
Now we're going to start looking at the ways to narrow your search.
The first way to search for ebooks specifically is to filter even before you run your search.
Next to this main search bar, there's going to be an option for an advanced search.
Go ahead and click on that.
Inside of advanced search, you'll see additional filtering options, and there is going to be
a section that allows you to limit by format.
So I'm going to type in my title, and then I'm going to go down to format, and I'm going
to select ebook.
This method ensures that your results will only show ebooks from the beginning, which
saves time and keeps your results focused.
This is especially helpful if you already know what you want and don't want to have
to sort through print books.
The second method is to search first and filter afterward.
Here's how.
We're going to type in our topic, title, or author into the main search bar, and then
we're going to hit go.
Once our search results appear, we're going to look at the filtering options on the left
hand side of the screen.
We're going to find the filter for format or resource type.
So here's format.
We're going to go all the way down to ebook, and we're going to select the ebook section.
After we're done applying that filter, our results will automatically update to show
only books that are available electronically.
This method is helpful if you want to see everything available first and then narrow
your results down.
Both methods work well.
It really depends on how you prefer to search.
Once you click on an ebook title, you'll see details about the book, including the author,
the publication date, a description, and access links.
Look for a button or a link that says view online, full text available, or as it says
right here, access now ebook.
Go ahead and click on that link.
If you're off campus, you may be prompted to log in using your NCU credentials.
Once you are inside of the platform, you can read online, search within the book, download
chapters depending on licensing, and sometimes print a limited number of pages.
A few important things to know about ebooks.
Download limits vary by publisher.
Some ebooks allow unlimited users, while others allow only one user at a time or a select
number of users at a time.
If an ebook says it's unavailable, it may be temporarily in use by another student.
Ebooks cannot be requested through interlibrary loan.
If we don't already have electronic access, we're not allowed to borrow an ebook from
another library due to licensing restrictions.
If you can't find the ebook you need, reach out.
We can help you look for a physical copy or an alternative title.
If you're unsure which filter to use, can't access an ebook, or need help locating a required
reading, don't hesitate to contact the library.
We can help you verify access, troubleshoot login issues, or recommend similar resources.
To review, there are two ways to search for ebooks.
Use the advanced search to filter for ebooks before searching, or you can search first
and then limit your results by format to ebooks.
Both methods will help you quickly find electronic access to the books you need.
And as always, we're here to help.
Happy researching!